This was kind of a trick question because all of
the list answers are ways a transaction can leave the memory pool.
Let's recap the possible situations.
First, if this transaction has been sitting in the MemPool for too long,
at the time of this recording,
14 days, it will be removed.
In the next possibility,
assume all transactions are sorted by
fee size with the lowest transaction fee at the bottom.
If the memory pool reaches its size limit and
a new higher transaction fee is accepted into the memory pool,
the transaction with the lowest fee is pushed out of the MemoryPool.
So, this answer choice discusses a concept we didn't cover just yet, fees.
Confirming Bitcoin transactions requires a lot of computational energy.
That means a lot of electricity bills to pay.
Every time a sender puts out a transaction,
they can add on a transaction fee.
Think of this as a tip for the miner.
Not all transactions come with identical transaction fees.
Miners can look through all possible transactions in the MemoryPool
to see which ones have transaction fees and look at their values.
Miners, like most people, like being paid.
So, they'll choose to validate transactions with higher fees.
But let's circle back to the question.
If the MemoryPool was reaching its max size limit
and a new transaction entered that had a higher transaction fee,
then the transaction with
the lower transaction fee would be deprioritized and squeeze out.
The third choice, that the transaction was
included in the block is one that we discussed earlier.
Now the reasons transactions wait in
the MemoryPool in the first place is in hopes of being validated,
then they can leave and permanently be added to the blockchain.
Finally, the last entry choice.
The transaction or one of its unconfirmed ancestors
might conflict with a transaction that was already included in a block.
Remember that the blockchain keeps a prominent history of transactions.
Once a transaction is included in a block,
it's considered to have one confirmation.
As soon as another block is mined on the same blockchain,
the transaction has two confirmations.
The transaction continues to get more confirmations
as more blocks are mined on that same blockchain.
Six or more confirmations is considered
sufficient proof that a transaction cannot be reversed.
So, there's a 99.9 percent confidence rating that
there's no errors with the transaction that have been added to the blockchain.
This means that if the transaction in
question conflicts with what's already on the blockchain,
chances are there's something wrong with it
and that transaction will be denied and have to leave the MemoryPool.
Now we know some of the ways a transaction can leave the MemPool.
But it's important to know that transactions that have left are always welcome back.
For example, when they're part of the local wallet and get
rebroadcast or when they're received again over the network.
Eviction does not imply a transaction is canceled,
there is still hope.
In this concept, we learned about the importance of the MemoryPool.
From there, miners will bundle up
transactions into blocks that will be added into the blockchain.
We also saw that there are reasons that a transaction might leave
the MemPool but not make it into the blockchain.
Perhaps the transaction is invalid or maybe it's timed out.
Well, the MemPool is a temporary place to check
our work before sending it permanently into the blockchain.
Now the purpose of this holding pool is to provide transaction security.
Once a transaction is included in a block and that block has been confirmed six times,
meaning five additional blocks have been added to that same chain,
that block is considered irrevocable as it will require
an immense amount of computation to invalidate and recalculate those six blocks.
As with many aspects we've discussed before,
because the purpose of the blockchain is to exist as a transparent,
immutable source of truth,
the information on it is not checked once,
twice or three times but six times to ensure security.